Welcome back everyone
will give it
a. Segmented yesterday will give
it about 5 minutes, so everybody
who wants to come in come in.
And then, um, and get your
environment setup and
everything. And then we'll, uh,
finish out today.
Hum.
All
right? Welcome back
everyone. Two day to the final
day of. For the pen testing
workshop, uhm? I'm glad to see
everyone back to who is able to
make it back today, um.
And hopefully everyone you know
got excited about what we did
yesterday because we're going to
do today is we're going to feed
off a lot about what we did
yesterday when we looked at this
and system scanning and things.
Now we're actually going to
start moving away from that and
start doing some web app stuff.
Uhm, and then we're also going
to again look at a scenario, um,
just based off of, uh, what I've
been tasked throughout my my
career. I kind of made up a
scenario based off of situations
I've been to where it will
actually be able to execute that
in a pen test, like attack path
on the target host.
Uhm and then will finish out
today. We just, you know, a
quick conclusion. And then open
up the floor to us.
Just like we did yesterday, so
let's go ahead. I, uh.
We got a lot to do today so we
can go ahead and jump into it.
Hopefully everyone took the time
between getting into the chat
room and, uh.
And now to get their
environment stood up so.
So yesterday we finished off
where we attacked FTP. Right?
FTP is A is a reasonably easy
service to attack if it's if
it's left vulnerable.
So what we're going to be
reaching out in expanding on
after that? Right now, before we
start talking about web apps, is
we're actually going to be
talking about other services
that are like that, right? And
so in the industry we call.
These services needs easy to
export services. We call them
low hanging fruit and a low
hanging fruit. Is A is a service
that if it's left unpatched, or
if it's. Left open it easily
exploitable right? So in uh, in
with pin testing an interest in
security in general, you'll see
things come out every year where
you'll see something that's
really detrimental because it's
easy to exploit and a lot of
companies will use whatever
service or. Will use whatever
services being used as being
exploited. The most common one
that you see in recent years is
SMB. Have samba.
And you'll see exploits that
exploit that service, such as
eternal blue, right? We heard
about that a couple of years
ago. That's where that was. The
exploit that was being used to
launch ransomware on hospitals.
Things like that last year we
had blue keep, which was a. It
was an exploit that targeted.
Uh, remote desktop.
And these are easy things to
exploit, because once they come
out, typically there's a.
There's a like an exploit that
comes out for Metasploit that
allows you to just literally
point at the target, run the
exploit, and then hit it, and
then get a shell, right? And we
saw that yesterday with the FTP
service that we attacked.
That was a That was, you know,
that was a technically a low
hanging fruit. It was an
unpatched service way out of
date, right? So.
When we were looking at what's
in front of us, right? It says
low hanging fruit are typically
vulnerable services. There are
leftists that are extremely easy
to exploit, right? Just said
that their left open or and or
vulnerable because a lot of
times servers are forgotten
about, you know a lot of times
when I'm in testing and I see
something that's you know
attached. It hasn't been applied
in two years, you know, and it
leaves a server vulnerable. Big
thing that I always hear is we
forgot that server was even
there. So a lot of it's a, you
know, a system configuration and
management, right? Uh, services
can be updated, uh, do a
business process, right?
What that means is that all we
can't we have to update the
server, but we can't bring it
down because it's a production
server that's doing a lot of
things for us. OK, well are the
pinch test are often security
engineer. Your job is to work
with with those individuals to
say Hey Well, let's work on
spinning up something like this.
Where we can use that to to take
all the traffic that's going
through your production server
that we need to Patch and let's
direct it to this temporary
site. Really quick, right? Or
let's advise your users that we
have to bring this thing down so
that we can work on it, right?
That's your job as a pen tester
is 2 is to give everyone a route
on how they can fix something?
Not it's not your job to fix it,
but it's your job to tell them
their different routes at least
resistance on how they can fix
it. And that lack of security
awareness. That's another big
thing. Um, a lot of times it's
just, oh, you know, we didn't
think, uh, not applying that
Patch was a big deal and there
will be reasons some better than
others of why they didn't apply
the Patch due to not knowing or
not being aware of thinking.
It's not really that big of a of
a risk or that big of an issue.
Um, however, um.
Get into pen testing or work
with PEN testers. You'll
notice that even small little
issues can become really,
really, really big problems.
Try this lighter work.
Right?
So we're going to actually go
ahead and we're going to start
attacking some low hanging fruit
were going to target one service
on the other machine that we're
targeting, so we're going to go
back to our scan results. We can
actually just go ahead, and if
you save your stand results if
you say this machine state from
yesterday, you can bring it up.
We're going to look at some of
the services that stood out
right. And the one that I really
want you to look at is going to
be samba. So what will do is
will go ahead and will actually
just rescan the machine.
And then we'll do a more
targeted, detailed scan
to look at something.
No. And then Samba. Samba is a
Linux variation of SMB, which
SMB is the.
Is the service for Windows.
And it basically does the same
stuff. Uh, for Linux, that it
is for Windows, right?
So let's go ahead. Let's get
cracking. So this is, uh, now
will need to get R. Kelly Linux
machine up. So for those of you.
They don't have it up. Go ahead
and take this time for a second
to get it spun up.
Also, I figured
out yesterday.
I figured out yesterday why my I
couldn't get a shell on the FTP
services. It's because I had
done that. I had ran through a
dry run through that and got a
shell previously and didn't
reset the machine, so it already
had a connection on there, so it
was a conflict.
So
I'm
going
to.
Again, check. Right
network. I do.
Simple scan just to double
check. And it looks
like it stayed the same.
It still at 10.0 dot
2.5.
Good. Oh
Alright so now.
Yes, uh, if you want to run as
root, I'm already as root, but
you can, just you should be able
to do that SU.
Little pack there. I do that.
I'm already running a group now.
How?
Gonna run another scan on
the on the host.
So we'll just do. Will do a
service scan again right?
Because we want to find to
see if we can find the Samba
Service.
But that run for a second.
All
right?
So if you look at the the scan
results right, we have. We got
all these services again, right?
All these guys.
This is the one that we would
look at. This is the one that
we really want to target.
So we're going to take note
that were running that port.
445 is running Samba.
Right, so there's a. There's a
couple things that we can do to
to enumerate some things from
the Samba Service.
So one of the the commands that,
uhm, that I always like to to
use first is SMB client.
And we use teckel just to see if
we can just connect to the to
the Samba Service. Without any
kind of like authentication, so
again, that stack L.
And it didn't let us get
you down there. Alright? Well,
that's no fun.
So, well, we don't want to spend
a lot of time.
Doing a lot of research right?
Because if we did that, we would
be spending the rest of that.
I'm just trying to find.
Something about this target,
right? So I've already done all
the heavy lifting for you guys
to to double check and see where
we can find something to
exploit. So let's say we say,
OK, cool, we can't we can't
connect to it, but we know it's
running this AMA services. The
Samba SBRSMBD three points X
right so? Uh, and you can
use various.
Research methods, however you
want to scramble on the
Internet to find stuff.
So let's say we find something
that works right OK.
So we we know that there is an
exploit in Metasploit that allow
us to attack this right? Because
we're worried about attacking
the low hanging fruit. We want
to have the quick 123 punch.
That's what attacking low
hanging fruits all about.
So we're going to start up
Metasploit again. I forgot to
reset this machine state.
So, but you can. So
again you type in.
Not in the chat for everyone to
get messed up and running.
So remember the keyword to look
for things is search.
The key word we use a search
right? And let's say we
wanted to search Samba.
Wait, still running.
OK, forget it. Sorry I'm talking
too fast. We gotta go.
No, I'll give it a second for
everyone catching up. Um, so we
see all these these exploits in
here, right? We see, we see a
bunch of auxiliary's and then we
see a bunch of exploits so.
The one that we're going to
use, and I'll put it in the
chapter guys.
The user map script.
And what that does is it it's
it's command execution. We're
going to see some more stuff
with command execution soon.
Uh, What is this seem? Do
you use to search? Yeah, the
keyword is search.
Do you do search samba?
And then you'll have this
exploit. And the key word to
load an exploit in the
metaphor it is used.
I mean. Are we select the
exploit right? So we're not
gonna it's not running or
anything. We just selected
it. Think about it has. It's
the payload that you've
loaded in, right?
So you loaded up.
Writer. Pointed
somewhere so now.
Yes you can. You search boy
too. That's part of um
gathering information, right?
Which we'll talk about later
today. Um?
So we have. We haven't loaded up
so now we need to see what's in
here. What are the options that
are in the parameters that we
have to set so you use?
The options command.
You can also type the number
of their exploits correct?
I don't like doing. I don't like
using the number because I.
It it hurts my eyes so I just
selected. Hum.
But if you feel free to use the
number that works for you, so
we're going to be actually
attacking it. We're going to try
to attack it on on port 139.
Right, which is another poor
associated with netbios. So, an
Samba was running on this port
on the on the host that we're
targeting so now we have to do
this one is pretty simple.
All it needs is it needs a
host, the target, that's
it, that's it.
So we do set right sets the
command that we have to use and
then our house is the parameter
that we're putting in.
And then we need to give it the
value. My house.
But given that the IP or the
host name, whatever you whatever
you want associated with the
needs an IP or host name.
And that's it. Now we can double
verify, right? For when you have
some exploits and that require a
lot of different input, it's
good to just re evaluate your
exploit before you launch it.
Especially in Pentesting an
offensive security. A lot of
times you only have one shot.
You have one shot because then
you might get caught an if you
get caught then it's game over
right? Because of a big part
about pentesting, an red teaming
and offensive security is that
we want to ensure that we are
one. You know, making sure that
we're exploiting things to the
best of our capabilities. But we
also want to make sure that
we're being we're not being
detected because we're also
testing defenses as well. We
want to make sure that if there
are safeguards or controls in
place. That we're bypass.
Because then we can turn around
an describe the impact based on
bypassing defenses and how we
can actually build better
defenses for our clients. Or if
you're doing, it has an
internal pentester how you can
do it for your own company.
I'm Josh asked, do we need to
set the artwork as well? No, the
arm ports already set right? So
we have two ports on the target.
That we're running samba. We had
one 39 and 445.
So in this case IF3139 doesn't
work. Then the next thing to do
would you try it and attack it
on port 445? But for this case
we're just going to do 139.
So. Without with evaluated
everything, we've double checked
ourselves. We have our exploit.
Radio We just type run.
And I and how you can see it
says now we have a command Shell
Open. Now we should be able to
type like any kind of Unix
Command. So we can
see that I'm route.
Yup. No,
I pulled up we.
The. The the user ID that we
are. We're root right where
the root user.
So we have complete control
of the system now.
And we want to verify that where
the host name and a lot of times
in in Pentesting, if you ever
get a connection on a system.
This is where you would have to
take a screenshot. Right, so if
you wanted to take a screenshot
of something to show proof.
You would want to capture all
this stuff right here, right?
I don't know if it's done now
OK. So this is this is a good
point to point out. Um,
because what does the
showing is? This is
showing us the attack
method that we used,
right? It's showing us
that we use Metasploit.
It shows where the connection is
going, right? It says it's going
to 10.0 dot 2.5 and what poor is
going on? Because what's going
to happen is in a pen test.
Scenario this is going to be
left open right? It's it's
creating a Newport and opening
it up on the target.
So when you report that and you
give a screenshot such as this
annual illustrated to the
client, they can say, OK, we
need to go back and we need to
fix that. And then also we need
to close down that port.
Because otherwise if they if
they just fix it, that port
still open and that creates an
issue. Right, the other thing is
too. Is it also shows where?
We're attacking from it says
that you know it's got our IP
on it and it's attacking over
port 44444 or will quadruple
for right, so it's letting them
know. OK, so this was you. So
if if something were to come
back and during a pentest
Reporter during a post pin test
when there are evaluating the
systems and everything and they
think that something else is
going on, then they can look at
that and say OK, this is them
or it isn't there.
You can also do that during a
pentest that happens a lot,
where during a pentest you'll
get alerted in. Someone will ask
you like hey, was this you did,
you do this and they'll provide
you. They'll provide you log if
they don't need to get along to
verify, and you'll get along and
you look at all the stuff and
you'll say no. That wasn't me.
And you have documentation like
this. That shows like, hey, that
wasn't me. This is what I did.
Right and you have to do those
at at focal points during a
pentest and a focal point can be
anywhere from where you get
access to a machine like this.
Or what you're doing
something that's really
noisy. You're generating a
lot of traffic like that.
Hum. So the more
documentation you have, the
better. This also illustrates
I can say hey, I got root
priviledges. I automatically
got root access to your
machine. That shouldn't
happen.
That should not happen ever. You
should never be able to get
automatic root priviledges onto
a machine when you establish
connection, ever. Hum.
So that's another issue you
can prove here. Hey, I got on
has a root user without having
to do anything so um and then
so another question is what if
they find infrastructure that
doesn't allow it to be closed
like they have to have an old
server that needs needs it for
say legal documents? Very
question. If something like
that happens you need to put
something behind a firewall,
some some kind of protection
and you need to segregate it
from the rescue network.
Easiest fix.
So.
Did everybody get to
do it? That's one thing I
wanna make sure that people
were able to do it.
And if you have troubles.
Try it again. Trying on
different port, right? If we.
If we want a background it all
you have to do is.
Press control CNET backgrounds
into a session. So yes.
No, it looks like a closed.
Decide to close
completely. Can we use it
to detect the vulnerability
on my local machine? Yes.
I'm the only one that got the
connection with you. Try it
on a different port.
All
right?
So.
Now. We're gonna do some a lot
more fun stuff.
We're not keep chugging along,
right? 'cause we only got and we
only got an hour and a half
left. So now we're going to do.
Is. Now we're going to look
at Web app pentesting, right?
Web app Pentesting is going to
be. Tall is is totally different
than system testing you're
doing. You're using a whole
different suite of tools, lot of
different stuff, right? Uhm.
So web app pentesting
important because everything
the web application. Now
everything is the web
application. Everything is a
web application and
everything the mobile
application. Now for the most
part.
Right, so it's really crucial.
Understand how we can do some
basic fan testing for web apps,
right? Uhm, so he can hear a lot
of tools like Nikto, burp suite,
things like that. We're not
really. This isn't going to be
like a crash course in the verb
sweet. I don't anticipate having
to open it up just because it's
a very detailed tool that we
could have a whole whole another
workshop on. So.
But if you are interested in
doing web a web application
testing and you want to do it as
a side hobby, there's a you can
do something called bug bounty.
I've listed two different things
down here where it says, but
crowd and hacker one. Those are
two uh, websites that have, uh,
it's called bug bounty as a
service is where you go on
there. You set up an account and
then you can actually go hack
companies on that platform for
free and not just for free. You
actually get paid if you find
bugs, uhm, you know, and you see
people make a couple $100 to I.
I know a couple people that make
a living doing that so.
Um?
So it's a big. It's a
big thing, right so?
What's the website? There's
tackle on an bug crowd.
Wasn't there two websites?
So one of the big things that
we test for when we're doing
pen testing is we look for
things based off of the OWASP
Top 10 right. The OWASP stands
for the open web application
security project.
Right in the list out every year
they list out the top ten
vulnerabilities that they see.
In Web apps.
That's based off various things
have collected data, so some of
the biggest things that we see
are the ones right here. We have
injection broken off sensitive
data exposure, XML external
entity. You might also see that
called Xyy broken access codes,
security misconfigurations,
cross site scripting, an
insufficient logging. So those
are what they put out as someone
who does this for living. The
biggest things that I see that
are impactful are broken,
authenticate, broken
authentication, sensitive data
exposure and insufficient
logging. Those are the three
that I see is very commonly that
lead to pretty large impactful
issues. Not saying that these
other ones aren't big injection
is a very big one. However, a
lot of companies now have
security safeguards put in place
that if you can inject something
into a. Website, there's a lot
of things going on in the
background, so to say that
prevent it from happening, but
not saying it. It doesn't happen
'cause it does happen.
Sup. And has Josh said yes, burp
suite pro. He got it as a trial
in his intense and confusing
there's course work that you can
find this like 4 hours long.
Another only skinny. The basis
if you want to learn learn it.
You can also go to um.
Port Swigger I put that in the
in the chat.
They're the ones who created
burp suite and they have a whole
free class on how to do it. So
scanning websites right? We want
to, we have to scan things
before we do anything. So
scanning web server is similar
to scanning a host, right? We
did in previous exercises.
The same thing, we're just
scanning for vulnerabilities in
for in for things that we can
find. One of the big tools that
we use is Nicdao.
McDonald's is A is a terminal
based um vulnerability scanner
for web applications. It will
tell you a lot of stuff.
And I will give you a lot of
feedback and info based on your
target, right? It's easy to use
automated, you can run it and
then do something else while
you're waiting for the scan
results to come back. Just like
we can do within map.
No.
Let's go ahead and let's
open up.
R. Kelly machine again.
OK.
Alright, so I gotta make sure I
don't have any.
Nope.
Now we're going to use the
command to start now.
Here.
No.
But they
switch attack
H for host.
May need to put HTTP so it knows
what protocol to send it over.
And we put our target.
Will I run?
And it's going to show you it's
gonna show you a lot of stuff.
If any of you decide to go take
a Sep, the Latin, the labs Nick
Jonas. This is your best is
one of your best friends when
you're scanning web house.
And as you can see, there's a
lot of stuff here, right? We
already start seeing all these
directories come up.
Right, we're seeing so much
stuff come up here.
Telling us that it's being
rented that PHP, my admin
is here.
You can use Nick Alfre CPS as
well. It does it for both.
But the website that our web
server is only only has a issue,
right? No. Still
checking. Yeah, so we only have
480. We only have HTTP.
And we have HTTP down here.
Look at all that.
Gave us quite a bit of stuff.
So and these are file paths,
right? So if we wanted to, so
let's see. We have the test.
So we go here. We copy that.
Open up a web browser
really quick.
The
next.
And now we have we have access
to the test. Folder and the web
application and we can just keep
running down so.
In a in a real pen test, if you
found stuff like this. This
could be this. This could lead
to a lot of different things
depending on what's in the
files, right? 'cause these are
just essentially like folders.
Only you can access them through
the web application. So think
about it like folders on your on
your local computer, right? Same
thing, it's just you're
accessing it on the web.
So. Go back.
And then we see that it has a
bunch of other stuff and we're
not going to worry about all
that. But the good thing that
you need to remember is that
this this is all very crucial
information that you can use,
right? Hum, and not every.
Everything that you scan with
Nick that was going to come up
with anything, right? Uhm,
especially in in bug bounty
stuff. You're not going to use
Niko alot if at all you're going
to use. Tools such as Burke
sweet to do what you need to do,
um. But Nico is a great tool if
you decide to do like hack a box
and Ann von Huben just hacking
challenges. Nico is a great tool
to Automate a bunch of tasks and
it also if you do internal
pentesting. It's a great tool to
use to automate stuff. Automated
scanning web server while you're
doing other things as well as if
you're doing an external pin
test, it might be a little
tricky though with external
contest. Just because a lot of
times external facing web
service have a lot more security
built into them because.
No, kiss me outside, right?
So did everybody have
a moment to catch up
and at least try that?
I take silences affirmation, so
if you guys requirement chat.
Yep.
Again guys. This is, uh, you
know this is, uhm?
Collaborative Open for
himself. Anybody wants to
talk or ask a question?
You're more than welcome to.
Do cybercriminals use
these tools? Yes.
So the next thing we're
gonna talk about, our CE
remote code execution.
Remote code execution, right?
This is a vulnerability where
you're able to. It says can be
exploited if the user input
injected into a file or string
or whatever, right something
into. Into a web application can
then be executed right? It
shouldn't be executed, but it
can write. It's not intended you
don't ever intend things like
that like that to happen, right?
But it can lead to full
compromise of a system, right?
Big big, big issue, right?
So essentially what that saying
is that you can run. Think about
it has saying you can find a a
parameter where you can actually
run commands. Right, you
shouldn't like a system command
on a web application. You
shouldn't be able to do that, it
should only be able to render.
Whatever, whatever is on the
page, right? And then if you
have to like search for
something, it should have a
search engine built in the in
the web application that you
know queries from the back end
and everything Johnson like.
Sorry that I remember there's an
exploit that happened while back
were like essentially a Twitter
image or some type of image had
system code hidden in it, and so
by looking at it it would
execute on the system as well.
Or something. Is that kind of
what you're talking about?
A kind of, but it did. It. Did
someone actually find an issue
and it was able to like inject
things into it? I don't know
that yeah, so injection, and if
it's injection injection, an
remote code execution go hand in
hand for the most part right?
Because injection allows you to
run commands in query things
from a database, right? It's the
same thing we're making system.
So.
Uh, and then I wanted to put a
quick thing is that the
biggest prevention that we can
do is just a blacklist special
characters. This is a big, big
way of how we make sure that
if we make a recommendation on
like hey, this is how you
prevent this.
Just don't allow certain
characters to be ran right
'cause we shouldn't be able to
run system command right? You
should also be able to evaluate
user input so when you type in
and you type in your name, it
should go to the back to the
back end before goes to the back
in it should go through some
kind of like quality assurance
check and then make a call back
to you just to double verify and
in this all happens in the
background, you're not going to
see that. And then goes to
the back end.
All right? Now.
My father too, so let's pull R.
Kelly Lenox image backup.
So this is going to
be a little tricky.
Now we're gonna be kinda going
away from the system stuff, and
we're actually going to be
accessing our web terminal.
Oops, I currently closed.
Now.
We need to go.
So this is gonna get a little.
Fast paced, so if it's too fast
I'm sorry. I'll try to slow
down as much as I can, 'cause
we're going to have a lot of
different steps here.
So we're going to need to go
to a DVD WA. The stands for
damn vulnerable web app, so
for those of you make sure
that what we're going to do is
we're going to just punch in
the IP of your target into the
web art into a web browser.
And then you'll have a menu
that looks like this.
And click on DV WA.
You're going to be prompt.
With a username and password it
should be admin password.
There is
a second.
My battery is it now.
OK.
So.
Username and password password.
It should just be password.
Yeah, the username
is admin, password
is password.
And again, this might be if this
gets a little fast paced, were
bout to do, it's OK.
This is being recorded. You guys
can come back to it.
Because we're going to do a
couple of things right. So.
We have a tab here that says
command execution.
Who did that? I wanna make sure
that security is on low right
up just because we're doing
this just to test out some
things. To show you the
examples.
So. It says
ping for free.
OK well. I wanna try
to paint my machine.
Or better yet, I want to
paint this.
We're gonna do 2.0 dot 2.5.
How do you see the table King
little King itself?
All right? What if I do so now?
I know we can run a command.
OK, he is a system command.
OK. Well, now let's see I as you
can see I already have some
things up in here where I've
already tried out some things
so. Yeah.
This will work.
All right? Notice
how I got the ID?
I shouldn't be able to do that.
Right, we should be able to that
what that saying is that's
allowing us to parse other
commands. And run them.
Right, and it's so www.data is
the is the default user for
managing the web page, right? So
that's not a big big user.
Zoom in.
Good.
Well, I'll show you in
just a second here, so
again, we just type in
its running the command ping.
So we don't have to typing. It's
running the command thing. It's
like if you were saying paying.
Right, if you're saying pink,
but we're not running pain, it
is. It's running thing for us.
So now what we can do is you can
type in another command.
So we do. We create, we hit pipe
right? Pipe is allows you to
concatenate multiple commands.
Or multiple arguments, right? It
says ping this and then run this
command. And that's how it how
it is for for Linux, right?
So we said ID not to say OK
who am I?
And it should come up with
something similar.
Looks like it's pretty alright
there goes, there you go.
Remember we did.
More time, and then we're going
to start. This is after this
one. This is where it's going to
start to get pretty fast paced,
so we now know, OK, we have
command execution. We can run
system commands. Hum.
How can I? How can I abuse
this as a pen tester running
an engineer and a security
engineer? You want to say
how can I use this to the
fullest extent?
Hum. Well, I could. I could
maybe get a connection.
OK, what something even more,
uh? Well, we can maybe even
deliver like a payload.
Right?
So there's there's a couple
things that we can do.
So. This is where it's going to
get a little fast paced. Uh, in
the in the beginner wrong, we're
going to take a big slope up for
a second. So.
I have
A PHP shell because we know,
um, based off of our
findings from Nick Doe.
That we had that is running PHP.
We saw that in the next game we
saw PHP everywhere. OK, cool.
So now we know we have PHP, so I
have a. I have a PHP shell here
if you want to find if you want
the this PHP shell all you have
to do is type in locate shell
dot PHP. You'll have some shells
in here. The best one to use.
Would just be to use this one?
It should all be in your.
In your Kali Linux distros.
So I have this, I have it
already ready to go.
Look at this out catting mean.
We're going to lift up the
contents of it, right?
Actually, I don't like that.
I'm gonna use Janet. Here is
my editor of choice. As we
talked about yesterday.
We have this big crazy
thing right here, right?
It's a PHP shell, just
PHP code. I'll remove all
this all these comments.
It's pretty, it's pretty simple.
Pretty pretty straightforward
for the most part.
Everything is ready to go for
you. It just comments out
what you need to change,
right? It says change this.
So I changed it. I need
to change it this to
the port of my machine.
OK, and then it says change the
port because we're doing this in
a test scenario in a controlled
environment, we don't need to
worry about that. However, you
might need to change the port if
you needed it to associate with
a common port, because the Web
Server might block uncommon
ports. That happens a lot.
So you might need to use
something more common like.
480-4443 Things like that,
right? So? But we're just
going to leave it to for 1234
just because it's easy to
remember. But you want to make
sure that IP is not asking the
IP of the machine is asking
the IP of our machine.
So we'll go ahead, save that.
Can you share the this file
with us afterwards so we can
play at home? Yes you can.
It's but it's also I put the
the file path of where it
should be on your machine.
That's in the the chat notes
as well.
So.
So there's there's that
right? And so you just copy
that over into a file into a
file repo that you have on
your on your machine.
John, I wasn't able to edit
the file. Do you know why
that might have been?
You're not able to do it, while
oh, you should be able to.
Too much of the file path,
that's Why. And I'm going to
rename this, I'm just use the
move command 'cause I want to
have it a little bit easier.
Not all news dot PHP.
OK. Now we need to figure out a
way. OK, we have our payload. We
know it's running PHP. We know
we can get it. Are we know that
that this thing will run system
commands? There's a system
command called W git.
Stands for web get. I remember
correctly don't quote me on it.
But what that does is it does,
uh, a git CMD. It grabs whatever
at an IP address that you you
associated with, or I'm sorry
that you reference it to to do a
double, you get to to get a
file, right? So.
We have to think how can we get
this file. This shell that we
just created this PHP show over
to the web server.
Huh, well. It's running so
some commands.
Can it run W get?
I don't know. OK, well how we
verify that. Well, I don't know.
Well, we have to do is we have
to set up a Web Server on our
machine. Luckily, Python has a
module built into Cali that
allows you to do that.
In one command.
So.
This is what we're going to do.
Clear this out so it's a little
at the top, so we're going to
type in the command Python.
Text, Tim for modules and the
module we're going to use.
Simple HTTP server.
Then we're going to specify it
on a port, or you can just run.
This command has is. If you do,
it should run it on port 8000.
All right?
So we have our file server
running. Running on port 8000.
All right? Cool.
So now.
Read.
Fun
W
get.
On this house. And it's running
on port 8000.
I see all ages.
The The Colon there.
Right, so we're going to
do that, and then we're
going to specify the file
path because we're running
the server in that file.
Or in that folder? I'm sorry
in that folder we can just go
ahead and grab it.
So again, we're using. It's just
pinging it's. It's pinging
itself, and then it's going to,
but it's since we're running the
pipe command. It's going to
forget about that, and then it's
going to run W get.
And it's going to. This
is our local IP address.
So it's saying get.
From this IP address on this
port this file.
So I click submit.
And as you can see our our web
server says there was a get
request. For this file.
So what that means is that it
went out and it got it.
Right, so now our file has been
transferred from. From our
server to the Web server.
Uh, let's see DVR, but instead
of uploading a shell, we can
directly execute a one liner on
the command execution page and
get a reverse shell. If that
works correct, you can do that
as well. This is just one
example. How I can do it?
So.
Awesome we have.
We have our file on on the
system. Great.
So you can press control
C to back out of that
out of your web server.
So now remember we set up the
connection on it. We needed to
connect on port 1234.
OK.
So. There is a tool built into a
into Cali or into Linux and that
called netcat that we can use
that will set up a listener.
It's gonna use, uh, we're going
to use this listener to
basically say, tell our machine
to say, hey, listen.
For connections coming in
on this port.
We're going to say, Hey, listen
for connections coming on port
1234 because remember.
In our shell, we told it.
We signed the port for to call
out to. We said 1234. So the if
we can execute that.
That payload on the Web Server
to call out on 12342 R Machine.
Then our machine can listen
on that connection.
That command that you're
going to use it it's just
NC for netcat.
Would you listen an AP
for port 1234?
Um, and you can do the
for robots.
Right?
Now it's running. So now we have
to say OK.
But how do we get?
Our file. Work.
Right 'cause we have to now.
Now we have everything
listening were sitting there
wondering where it went. All
that stuff right?
Well.
Do it again.
So now we gotta go back
here, right?
So now all we
have to do.
Yeah, we should be able to go.
Lee Hall in China. Double check
so. There there's a.
Believe it's a It's a.
Directory.
Home. There
we go.
So if we got a hackable, say
we did some Recon right and
we figured out that it was
unhackable.
This is not fair. We were
supposed to go.
Hum.
'cause it should be in uploads.
Right?
So another command that
we can we can run to to
figure out where we went.
This is that is PWD.
Oh Only, uh?
No, I'm not a comment, so
thanks DVR.
OK, here we go. So where it's in
vulnerabilities. So sorry.
Well, I think we should
just be. We should just
be able to type in that
and see how it's hanging.
So if we're storing things
in here, that means that it
grabbed it right there. So
if we go here now, we can
see that we have a shell.
I type in a command, uh,
interesting speed with directory
page now. It just takes you to a
directory page. Four and then.
That's it, I can't, I can't
run anymore commands out of
the command execution.
Interesting, you might wanna
check the security level on your
on your machine. Uh, on your
target machine. Is that low?
I don't, I don't know. I
couldn't tell you without
actually like taking a look at
it. Um?
So. As you can see though.
Now we can see that were on
medics portable we have.
This user right and we have
and this is the the user ID
that we have.
So we were to take this and send
it in and we were on a pen test.
We could say hey. We're
able to do RCE.
We were able to do that.
We were able to do, you
know, these multiple steps
and inject eject commands.
Who are a host commands are I'm
sorry, operating system commands
into through the web browser
should be able to do that,
right? And by doing that we
got caught, we compromised
the system, uhm?
And we would use something. So
if we took like a screenshot of
just this stuff, we would be
able to say, hey, like this is
how we got it. And they would be
able to go back and fix that.
So to reiterate
what we just did.
We looked at.
We looked at the The Web page.
We discovered that we were able
to execute system commands.
We then realized that we could
use. The W get command because
it was installed on the machine,
so we were able to use that to
make a call out to our machine
rather payload and then execute
it right? So we did command. We
actually did command execution.
An file directory traversal.
'cause that's what we did when
we call this guy. So there's you
could do. You could even call
this so with a different
command. So like, let's say we
we cancel this out.
This again and will run this
in the background, so you do
that with an ampersand.
So now she's running in the
background. It's still there.
Full path.
Girl.
Any queries, the web page? And
now we just did that all in one.
One fell swoop.
The command to pop the serville
into the server.
PHP far are just a
single.
Workshop Yeah.
So our yeah DVR put one in there
so it's just you're running. You
run whatever for the first thing
when you pipe it and then you do
a double, you get to whatever
the file you have to have your
IP. In the port associated
with the Web server, and
then the the file.
How do I find the PHP file
on my machine just search?
Do search. Tell doctor you have
some. I put the file path it
somewhere in the comments.
How can we go from
www.data to route through
privilege escalation techniques
which we're not going to
worry about right now?
Or I'm sorry, not search. Locate
sorry. I have not explored
on the brain.
OK.
You're welcome.
So that's the way how we
can look at injection.
And how we can do, um, some
directory traversal, right
command execution? We did a lot
of things right there, right?
That's why I said, You know, as
soon as we it was time that we
figured out we had command
execution is ramping up for a
second there. So.
Ah, let's see. We have an
hour left, so let's keep
going 'cause we still got
a couple of things so.
Again, if you're getting a
little lost, its OK.
The there is a recording, so the
next thing that we're going to
talk about is cross eyed
scripting. We're just going to
do one example really, really
simple. I'm very, very
straightforward, so this the
cross site scripting attacks.
These occur when the attacker
uses web application, sends
malicious code. Typically it's
like in in the form of like a
script. You'll see a lot of
times where you'll have it as an
alert, right? And you send that
to a different end user.
The one that we're going to be
looking at it's gonna be called
reflective access. It's pretty
dangerous. You can use it to do
a lot of different things.
I like the
the mean there.
So this one's pretty, pretty,
uh, pretty straightforward guys,
so. But you can use this to
to have the server reflect
back data to you that you
don't. It shouldn't reflect
it back to you.
Let's go ahead and let's
jump back into it.
So we're gonna go to excess
reflected. So it's going to
say what's your name? My
name is John.
Oh Hello John Hello.
So that means it's reflecting
things back to me that I put
it right and we're not going
to worry about looking at all
like the source code and
anything like that. 'cause we
could say this would be a lot
longer to look at that.
So what what's happening
in the background is that
it's taking in the data
and then it's reflecting
it back to you, right?
And for those of you that have
written programs and you know
like when you have like you,
especially like with Python And
it takes in the input and then
you reflect it back to the user
saying, oh, hello, and you put
the variable in. Which would be
your name and it reflected back
to you, right? It's like
that kind of only in a web
application sense, right?
And while it's all good
and gravy, we don't want
it to be able to reflect
certain things back to us.
So.
What we can do is we can
make script tags right and
how we do that?
You can write simple ones like
this. Is very very simple.
Everything or straight
forward. I don't like you
right? So this is the script.
This is the script tag right
here, right? And then we can
put stuff inside of it.
So server are this. This can
execute JavaScript. So what we
can do is we can put an alert
tag. This.
And then we can just put
anything inside of their right
saying alert and it should be
able to pop art shows one.
Yeah. Now you can see we've
gotten one reflected back
to us now.
Well, I don't want to go anymore
deep into that because it's a.
It's a topic that you can get,
uh, a lot into. You can have
many different types of attacks
come from cross site scripting
attacks or lots of important
data can be reflected back to
the user that shouldn't be with
be reflected. Typically in a pen
test, if I ever.
If I ever find anything.
On a Web server that allows us
to that reflects anything back
to me. I typically just use the
most simple command to wear. It
just reflects a number back to
Main and then I say, OK, I I
take a screenshot of that and I
make a report and say Hey like
you need to be able to like this
shouldn't be there, right? The
impact is enough to its
impactful enough to have it
there, right? So they by default
should just say, OK, we're going
to fix it. Is there any method
that we can use to prevent this?
Uhm, I always say that you need
to have input sanitation, write
an input, sanitation or
sanitizing input however you
want to put it. Is it it varies
from application to application
right? 'cause it things may be
written differently. Things may
process things differently.
There could be a lot of things
going on in the background
right, but the biggest thing is
always saying like. Hey you
need to make sure that your
user the user input is being
sanitized and that's with a
lot of different.
With a lot of high side
scripting, what's a real world
example of reflected excess?
Uhm, a lot of times you'll see
it in like forums, right?
Because forums, it's just where
you want to open up something
and you want to type stuff in
right? And then it reflects it
back into the web page. Its
little job is to take data and
reflected back to web page.
And you'll see a lot of uhm.
Mistakes there.
Where? You're you're you know
you'll be able to reflect things
back um, and then a lot of times
in parameters. Where you have
files being being traversed
right, such as like, you could
see it up here where.
It says name equals we do. This
is a parameter that's all it is.
If I put John.
It says Oh, Hello, John.
Shop. Oh
It's just taking the user input
and saying OK, here you go.
Uh, you says with regex. I
actually don't know, Uh, I would
assume the best way is to.
Again, sanitize input when you.
When you find things.
In a in a in an environment.
Well, it's an environment, you
know our environment you don't
know. You're always going to
make sure that you research a
little bit for each of your
findings, because you will link
your your notes, such as if you
storm somewhere. Aren't you find
a web page that document on the
Internet that you can use as
your primary source? You're
going to have that in your pin
test reports saying, and here
are my references that back what
I'm saying, right?
So you use your skill set your
your body and knowledge in your
noggin to to do these things,
and then when you're reporting
it. You use it. You you research
on the best method, right?
'cause methods could change.
Right, and so you want to make
sure that you're using the
latest references. To back your
story and back the purpose of
why you're saying something
should be fixed in the manner
they should've fixed, right?
Let me give you.
In
Let me see.
You're welcome.
She got. During
the security is high and it will
show A the common as uh as
a string. It does it just a
transfer where we is. What we in
turn into a components.
Uh, say it one more time.
The ice we did the security
often too from low to high and
the output is correct. Uh, if we
if means Inter the command
script alert? It only feels like
spring. Uh, where we eat in turn
So what, what, what does? How to
say that, uh, so?
How do you eat transfer, uh?
Do the correct outfit.
What is a behind the
back? Behind there it could. It
could very right. It could very
not. Like I said I didn't want
to go look in the source code
because otherwise we're going to
take away from the rest of the
workshop. Um, however, if you
want to like again, if you want
to know more about like how
everything works in the
background and how like how this
can be how this works, how it
operates right, and how it can
be prevented. There's a lot of
resources out there like and.
Like I said, there's a. It's
it's in this case in the
background. It's taking user
input right and then it's
feeding it back to you. It's all
it's doing, that's all is doing
and then. And then to prevent
it, you need to make sure that
it's taking that in in, put in
Sanitizing and making sure that
certain things aren't being
executed, such as like we we
executed that script tag. It
shouldn't do that. Resume that
the website just transfer
this into strings.
If if the security is high.
This cracked if the security is
high. Yeah, then there's a
there's different ways, right?
And we're not going to get into
that because, again, that all.
Get wet or off order.
Yeah, 'cause This Is This is is
basics right now for you. For
those of you that want to keep
going in doing this, there's
there's different levels in in
this application that you can
use to test your skills or to
learn new things, right so?
So there's a lot of different
things that you can do.
Um? So we keep getting
off topic.
So well.
Oh alright.
We want to talk about
injection, right?
So injection is where we just
saw it. Like right? We did
command execution. However,
um, now we can take that
another step forward and we
can look at SQL injection.
Right, so SQL injection is
essentially where we're able to
run SQL commands. And there's a
lot of various ways how you can
find this. If you find it in
the real world, it's it's, uh,
it's. It can be one of those
things where you have to pump
the brakes on a pen test
because it's a big issue,
because what this does is this
allows you to query information
from the back end, which you
should never be able to do the
front end and the back end
should never be able to be
talked to by the user in that
kind of that kind of sense,
ever.
So.
When you take a basic basic look
at SQL injection, um time is a
little shorter than I
anticipated, so we're only going
to look at a way of how we can
query something. However, just
know that based off of what
we're going to be looking at,
you can actually get a shell as
well. So we're going to do this
really quick. Then we're going
to go into our scenario and then
you rap it up so.
Not yet. Now we're gonna go
into SQL injection.
Right, so we have this
guy right here.
OK, so it says user
ID. Let's type in.
OK. So now it says that the
user ID of one is admin
right? All right, so we know
them and user is one.
OK, so now we know that it's 2.
Right so so on and so forth
right so we're we're we're
executing something that's then
querying something from the back
the back end kind of.
Cousin like a notice here where
it says ID up here and the URL.
It has the idea and in pen
testing, a lot of times when you
have access to this, you'll just
kind of like flip through it.
See what you can do.
So it does answer that, right?
And you could. You could create
a like a script to just like
kinda start cycling through and
feed you the input for everyone.
Right?
So. Now that we know we can do
that. Now we can put something
in here when we're doing SQL
injection. One of the first
things I always do.
'cause I just put.
Little thick
Says you have an error in
your SQL syntax.
So what that tells us is that,
Oh no, it's running or it tells
us it's running SQL and it
says, Oh no, it's not really
parsing anything like we, we
know that we're able to were
able to get queries from the
back end like this. And it's
not. It's not sanitizing
anything.
All right, well, it shouldn't do
that. So now.
Let's try something else. So now
we say OK, one well, let's see
what happens if we do this.
All right, we still got another
issue alright, but we know that
this caused the issue.
So in SQL.
You have different ways to to
select things. One of the big
things that you'll see with SQL
injection is where you can bind
things together. And we do
that by running a command
called Union select.
Now. What we should be able to
do? Please.
Now we're we're we're saying,
OK. Process that.
And one.
And. What is something
we would want to know when we're
when we're doing anything is we
want to know the version of of
the, uh, the server, or the
database or whatever is running
in the background, right?
Gonna skate that
using a pound
we need to.
And now we see that we have.
We have the back end. We know
what's what type of server being
right on the back end, right?
It's about 2. That was running
the the Mets floatable image.
So you could do a lot of damage
is right, a lot of damage, um?
And again, while I'm not going
to where we don't, we're we're
running a little low on time.
Uhm, I would. For those of you
that are interested, you can
actually take this a step
forward. And you can actually
use a tool called sequel map.
And you can use that to actually
get a reverse connection.
On this machine, kinda like how
we did with the, uh, the remote
command execution just a minute
ago you can do the same thing.
You just have to use a tool
called sequel map. I'll put that
in the. In the chat
notes for you.
So there's a lot of ways
of how you can actually
get a connection on the
back end database, do it.
Lot of fun to test around and
play around with is that part of
Cali by default on the one I'm
using. Yes, and I got this one.
Uh, this is the last edition of
2014. So are the last iteration
through that was working now so.
Uh, I haven't messed around with
any of the 2020 versions.
So.
Alright, cool deal. I
figured it be there. If it's
not it's also on GitHub.
SQL injection is based on the
SQL Command line.
No, SQL injection
is based off of.
Uh, commands being processed on
the front end the client side,
what we're doing and being
processed on the back end
without any sanitation
whatsoever. We shouldn't be able
to get information like this.
It hasn't been updated in 76
days. Yeah, SQL map. You have
to update it every time you
run. There's a lot of tools
that you use to scan that you
have to update as you kind of
use them so.
Right?
So.
But that's basic SQL
injection. It's a big
topic. So again, if uh.
If this seems a little.
Little much don't worry.
So.
Now let's go ahead
and move forward.
All right?
Now we're going to jump into our
scenario. This is the fun part.
And let's say where are third
party and somebody hires us on.
OK.
So somebody hires this on an
they said, so we've been
hired on to assess their new
Apache Tomcat Server.
Right, they want us to test the
following. They want us to try
to brute force it, which we
haven't done. What we're going
to do a little bit about. Pen
testing is kind of learning
while you go sometimes as well.
Uh, we're gonna look at web
vulnerabilities and if possible,
we're going to fully exploit the
Web server. OK, so we need to
brute force. We need to find
some vulnerabilities that we
can exploit and try to get
maintained persistent access
on the machine.
All right? So a
little bit. Now we go. We need
to make a pirate at path, all
right. So this is what we're
gonna do. We're going to
discover the Web server, right?
We've already done that with
scanned it. All that good stuff.
Then we need to discover the
services right? We discovered
the services by scanning it. Now
we need to brute force it. We
brute forcing means that you're
going to basically try a bunch
of random combinations of
usernames and passwords until
something works right.
It's going to go through a bunch
a bunch of different things,
right? So we're going to use a
dictionary brute force attack
where we just run through a list
to attack it, right? Then we're
going to look for common
vulnerabilities in the web
application. We're gonna get
some persistent access and we're
gonna leave proof that we
actually exploit the machine.
This is how we would really do
it in a real thing test.
If the client were to give us
something such as this, we would
say, OK, this is how we're going
to do it. Remember, yesterday we
talked about attack pass attack
plans, how we execute them.
This is how we do it, and if
this doesn't work, can you go
back to the drawing board?
Hello.
Now let's go ahead and get to.
Bring up my calendar
shoot again.
All right? Sorry.
Hello. OK.
Call Kitty.
No, I already
have some some
some stuff.
Set up pre staged for us to go
so we need to discover the house
right? So are the host for my
machine is 10.0 dot 2.5 Alright
Awesome we have the asset we
have the target insight.
I'm not saying one more time,
we're just gonna run a simple
service scam. Actually, we're
going to. I'm
gonna use a a tool called
Cherry Tree. It's a great
note taking tool.
Now we're
gonna do.
Yes.
I'm server this is how and this
is how we would do it.
Ask you, you make sure that
you keep something updated.
Sleep there.
Alright, so we are assessing the
Web server so now we need to
make a branch off of this, so
we'll call it scan.
Alright, we would put all
of our scan.
Into a note.
And you don't have to use Cherry
Tree I I I use a Cherry Tree in
notepad and um, in one note when
I'm taking notes while I'm
testing. So this is completely
up to you on how you take the
notes. This is just in the in
the way of how you document
things, right? 'cause you want
to document key points of your
attack paths because we would
illustrate that in the pen test
before. Or in a in a
security report, right?
So.
Let's take a look at what
we have right?
All right?
You install it the there's a
command. If you Google it really
quick, it'll tell you.
Or you should be able to get it
to with the with the update. The
update should automatically have
it monthly check.
So we notice that we have
a couple different web servers,
right? So we have this Apache
Server Alright. We already went
there. So let's say we check
that one that would be the first
one we go to. We just went on
that. And that's not that's not
the one that we want to look at.
We would, you know, report to
the client, say, hey, like we
found this may be saying Oh no,
that wasn't that, wasn't it?
Let's say that we take, so we
say, OK, we take this one out.
Don't even worry about it right?
But this one.
We got one down here that looks
kind of interesting, right?
So.
We're going to do now is
going to check it out.
So we need to make sure that we
access it over. That for
those 8081.
Did I do something that was not
over 81? Oh 8187.
Hey.
So we know now.
Now we got this. Apache Tomcat
server that were running in the
background awesome so you would
kinda like look around at this
and you say OK like.
Uh, I see a file path here,
that's it. do I see a Virgin or
anything? Copyright 1999 to
2005. That means the last time
this would have been updated was
maybe 2005, which is a long,
long time, obviously.
All right?
See what else? Oh, we can look
at the status. Oh, we have to
have credentials. Then I'm in.
Apple. Can't get in.
All right?
Tomcat
administracion
Nothing is working
for a second.
Maybe Apache Tomcat manager?
Amen.
Nope, doesn't work.
It doesn't matter because
they want the the client
wanted us to test and see if
we could brute force, right?
So now what we'll do is we're
going to load up.
That's what again.
So if you left it open.
You should be able to have
it, uh, it should already
have it open from using it a
previously right?
So. There if you do
search again. We do
Tomcat. Dad.
And you should see some
things in here.
Right 'cause We want to make
sure we want to see if we can
get if we can brute force.
So now we have leave it. It is
This guy right here?
So we're going to use the
auxiliary scanner. Actually no,
we want to use this one. Sorry
the the manager login.
And you're gonna use that one.
You're gonna say use.
OK. Let me I realize this. This
can kinda make the background
look a little fuzzy.
So we're going to use. We're
going to load up that auxiliary
scanner, right? It's the
auxiliary's are usually just
they. They usually are things
that scan or check for
vulnerabilities or check for
certain things on a system.
Typically. So OK, we have this
loaded up now. We need to look
at the options that we have.
Oh man.
Let me see if I can.
OK,
so.
We can see that it already has a
a user file.
Right here, right? And then
it has a password file that
it's going to use.
So it's going to use these.
These ones were going to check
for default credentials.
That's the first thing that we
always want to do. You always
want to check in, scan for
default credentials because
those are easy targets, right?
So now then, as we really need
to do, we need to change two
things we need to change the
our host, right? That's our
remote host. That's the one
that we're targeting. We also
need to check doublecheck
carport 'cause this is not the
port that we're targeting.
So remember, you use the set
command. We're going to use the
our house. We're going to set it
to the target. We're
going to do our port.
So now we
have not said
we just say
run.
And that's it. Now we
gotta go through here.
As you can see, everything
with the red line.
Is incorrect.
Alright, we gotta look at that.
We gotta hit.
Cool, now we can actually
weaken login so we can check
that off the box. We said Hey,
this is how we brute force.
This is how easy it was.
You create that in Ukraine
into finding you use something
like this. You create a
screenshot like this and say,
Hey, this is how we did it.
You can ask, did you find
any? Did you get any alerts
from us brute forcing it?
If you did, how long did it take
for you to respond if you
didn't? We need to talk about
implementing some monitoring
solutions, but if you did, how
long did it take you to respond
to it? Take a days they take
your hours. It take minutes.
Right? What was the plan of
action after you detected it?
How long it take for you
to reach out?
How long did it take for you to
blacklist the the the attacking
IP? Right, that's a lot of
things as a pen tester that
you're going to ask, and that
your because you're going to log
this as a finding you're going
to say, Hey, we brute forced.
It didn't get logged. We also
found default credentials.
And you ask a lot of questions.
Part of being a pen testers
asking questions. Now you will
hear a lot of times about cyber
security engineers being the
police. Uh, of the other
computer force, right? The
computer world, uh, think about
like pentesters almost being
like the SWAT team sometimes of
cyber security. They're the ones
that go in and and really go in
there and then they ask
questions and they do a lot of
you do a lot of detective work
and you have to. You have to
reference everything that you do
and you have to back up a lot of
a lot of what you say.
But, uh, what you say? Who holds
a lot of weight?
Right, what I mean by that is
the things that you say I'm
organizations aren't going to
take. Likely they're going to
take it in, and they're going to
say, Hey, we gotta fix this
right? So the more you yeah,
sorry, uh, so I is this really
only when they ask for us to
look for brute force attack in
specifically, like 'cause I know
a lot of at least nowadays
passwords after five attempts,
right? You get locked out. Which
is the point of that is to stop
brute force attacks, right?
Yes, but that's only you know.
That's like you're talking about
like domains like brute forcing
domain credentials applications
could be aren't part of that
could not. Most the time aren't
part of that rule, right? Unless
you're using domain credentials
to get into it, but if it's just
local credentials, unless they
set a lockout policy.
There typically isn't, uhm?
Anything there that prevents
that, so in in it depends from
environment to environment,
right? You'll see environments
where they do have lockout
policies, you'll see where they
have monitoring solutions where.
If you start seeing something
getting pinged and just scanned
like that, you're gonna get
alerted, right so?
And that's when you know I
mentioned like being a pen
tester, you learn a lot as you
as you work. A lot of it is just
about learning and learning and
learning while you work um, and
you use your experiences from
from pentester pen test to make
your next pen test better and to
make your efforts on the pen
test. The next pen test better.
The other thing is too is that
if you're an internal pen tester
or even if you have a company
that you're doing it for
clients, your job is to actually
and believe it or not, your job
is to make your job next time
harder, right? 'cause you go
into a company and you find.
A bunch of issues. You say Hey,
you gotta fix these issues.
Lovemore probably pretty easy to
find. Guess what happens next
time you go around. You have to
assess that network an only
maybe 10% of a changed.
It's going to be a lot harder
for you to find things.
So. Again.
Pen testing. You have to be
committed to learning so.
Um? So again, we would find
this. We were reported would say
hey worth logging. Where's all
the alerts? All that good stuff,
right? So we brute force now.
So we would
create something else.
You say brute force.
I mean
a subtotal,
yeah? Note of that sub node OK.
So we would just say, OK, cool.
That was our
successful one metasploit.
And then
you would
put in um.
And those are like that.
Chicken scratch notes, right?
But we could use that for
later, right? And you can
make a story off of that.
So.
The next thing that we want to
do is we want to log in right.
Let's go to that manage are
alright. So it's Tomcat.
Cat.
All
right?
See I think is going on here so.
It looks like.
Wait a second.
We have a place where
we can do file upload.
Interesting.
Does it? Does it sanitize?
Let's see.
So I have to have a.
Yep, I have a random moose here
and you can see right? We have a
Web P file. Just a
general file, right?
Because this says war files can
be deployed, let's see if we can
deploy that. The film it has to
be a war file.
All right?
Well.
Oh, let's
say. We're like, OK, we gotta
make a a war file.
Um, that we can upload. Can we
create a war file?
Like how we would create a shell
connect back on.
So this is the part where you
would go and you go Google right
or you have it in your notes.
Sometimes you'll be on a network
or you'll be um if you like,
especially if you work for the
DOD you would be in a in an area
where you don't have access to
the outside Internet, so you
carry around books like. Like
this? I don't know if you can
see it. No.
No, but it's the operator
Handbook. The big big book.
With a lot of different
commands.
User share, uh, let me check. So
Josh put one in the book. He put
one in the chat notes.
'cause I don't have
that. No, I don't have
that. 'cause I didn't.
Uh, this should be able to work,
um. However, we don't even have
to go find it right.
Because we can actually
create one.
Right so. If you there's a tool
that we can use, it's called Ms
F Venom. Right and it it creates
encoded payloads that we can
then upload to different to
target right? And it does a lot
of different stuff. It does a
lot of different stuff, but for
this sake of the argument for
this purpose of the the.
Of the exercise, we're going to
create a war file.
Right, so we can use Ms. F Venom
to create a payload on a certain
that calls back to our machine
just like we did with the RCD.
We created that PHP payload.
We're going to do the same
thing. For the command.
MSF, are you going to type?
You can type in half the
command and then hit tab.
And then. We're going to
specify the type of payload
with the Tac P Command.
I specify our machine and
I know I'm going fast.
I'll break it down here.
Or I will choose the default
port will do that and then we
need to give it a filename.
Set is at the local machine or
the target machine. So yeah,
good question. I'm breakdown
really quick so.
What you can see here is
we've typed in the command.
We have assigned the payload
as a JavaScript shell.
This elbow stands for localhost,
so this is our machine.
Right here, right? That's
my. That's the IP of
Michaely Machine.
And then I'm just saying
that we're going to create
the connection over 444.
Right, actually we already have
a connection over football for
that already got a stab Lish
later, so I'm going to try.
You're not right yet at the
beginning, so let's do.
4.5.
So now we're going to create
that, just press enter. It's
gonna take a second. It will
create it.
And then if you need
for those of you that
need the command.
Now of course changed the
the localhost yours.
Now you can see
we have this guy.
Here's this. More lights,
bigger, that's alright.
Fortunately, we're not
worried about, uh, the
buffer or anything so.
Alright, so now we're going to
go. We're going to go back here.
We're going to upload
this war file.
So go back to. We're going back
to the The Target Web Server.
On the admin page, the manager
page that we got access to my
brute forcing, so now they've
asked us to discover
vulnerabilities right? So we
discovered. A potential
vulnerability where you have
file uploads no. So now what
we're going to see is if.
We can upload this and then have
it call back out to our machine.
Because it shouldn't be
able to do that.
So.
Go ahead for deploy.
The server says OK.
Awesome.
Should have it somewhere
here there is R.
Is there Halo right? So you can
see different ones in here,
right? There's one here. This
is shell. Don't worry about
that, that's when I just want
to make sure that it work.
So.
We have our our payload in.
Now we gotta set up Alexa Netcat
listener, however I want to do
something a little different. So
if we go back.
The Metasploit.
There are actually no. We're not
going to mess boy 'cause that
will take a second, so we're
just actually going to use
netcat so. Sorry about
that. So we're gonna do the
same thing, but we were going
to specify it. I specified
mine on port 445, right?
So now we're going to
listen on port 445.
Now.
We're gonna do.
We're going to go to the server
and we're going to click on.
All you have to do is you
have to click on it and then
it's gonna run right.
And look at that. We are now
on the Tomcat Server.
So now we have gotten access to
the server, right? So we we
we've beaten this thing up?
We've gotten a root shell. We've
got a web shell. Now we're on
there as a tomcat user, right
for the Apache server we beat in
this this message put home image
up quite a bit, right?
So. This is where you would
be able to take an image here
right and you take an image of
this of this terminal you say
look we were able to get a
reverse connection, were able to
bypass whatever security. Going
on and were able to get a
connection and that's it, right?
You take a screenshot right
there and that's a big finding.
If something like this was in an
actual pen test, we would
anytime you can get a reverse
connection, an unauthorized
reverse connection such as this
on a machine it's always labeled
as a critical right, and that's
because that means that somebody
would be able to do this and get
access to the. Machine directly
and that always happens. Do you
have to like stop everything and
let people know right away kind
of thing? Or there's a good
question? No, it depends.
It depends are so if I got on
here say say this was a machine
that hosted sensitive data, such
as like credit cards, Social
Security numbers, things like
that, then Yes, you have to stop
100% UM in the healthcare
industry. If you find something
that's hosting personal health
information. Hi, absolutely
100%. You stop at this point. I
wouldn't know anything right? So
you start pilfering the machine.
Right, listening out all the
file content starting start
going into things, seeing what
you can find and you would be
off your best judgment there.
You would say, OK, I need to
stop and I need to tell someone
or you just keep going and at
the end of the pen test however
many days it is you would you
would log it and and tell them
if it's a critical it means they
have to fix it quick like I
think it's within 7 or 7 or 30
days somewhere around there. Do
we ever do you ever? I guess and
pen testers in general? Do you
guys automate your? When it
comes to scraping through files
like that, or do you actually
just go through each single file
one at a time and look at?
So that's a good question.
You can look for, uh,
there's keywords that you
can find, like if, um.
If I wanted to find something
that was a sensitive.
Then yeah, I would I would. I
would. It depends like if I it
it depends on organization,
organization and how they're
going to store things right? But
you might want to look at like
PDFs. 'cause like bank
statements are usually like PDF
things like that, right? You
wanna look if you can find like
some kind of Excel sheet or
something. That's like that,
right? Because typically Excel
sheets have, you know.
Hum, quantifiable, quantifiable
data that pertains usually to
like a person, right? Anytime I
found anything that had that, it
has things that are like it's.
It's a quantity of something
right when it's useful or not
useful. I'm sorry when it's
impactful. Meaning like I might
find a a spreadsheet with
salaries on it.
That shouldn't be there. It
shouldn't be there or be there
in in plaintext or allow me to
see it right, especially if I
got on as this user.
Uh, but the big thing is like.
Yeah, just trying to you, you
have to use your best judgment
you have to pilfer through
things and find things. Uhm.
But on a on a It's it's
typically on a case by case.
Basis because depending on the
organization that you're working
with, Dell store files right?
And also to make to drive
another point, is when you're
saying this was a target, right?
And say we were working. We are
working with the bank. We would
be told beforehand if there is
potential sensitive information
on here right? 'cause we alot of
times when we have the test for
compliance which we talked about
yesterday. You you you would
know if there might be sensitive
information on there, so you'll
start. You'll dig really heavily
to make sure that, like all this
encrypted, that you can just
access it, anybody can access
it. Things like that.
Um?
And then something else that was
brought up to was that you know,
with privilege escalation,
privilege escalation, right?
We're only we're user right now,
right? We're not route.
Um, the reason why I don't want
to dive deep into crevasse.
What this class is? Because
there's a lot of different ways
of how you can escalate
privileges and impend testing.
Typically you don't really worry
about privilege escalation if
you get. A connection on a
machine. You worry about
privilege escalation when you're
testing new operating systems
that are being introduced into a
system are if something new
house is being introduced that
has a you know older variant of
of an operating system, but they
made some changes or something,
right? You do it more locally
because typically operating
systems in my experience they
they get cloned on all the
machines. So if you can prove,
ask on one machine you can do it
on the all of 'em, right? So you
do it in an isolated environment
where you just do one at a time.
Um, because in a situation like
this in a pen test, I wouldn't
worry about previous. I'd be
like, OK, I gotta reverse
connection. That's a big issue,
and then I'll be like, OK, what
else can I find out?
Is there any sensitive
information that shouldn't
even be here right?
Because that's how you're going
to make, and that's how you're
going to help um drive home
impactful findings to an
organization and help them
remediate those issues, right?
Because if I did that by word,
about like OK, now, I gotta see
if I can get the root account.
That's going to take away a lot
of time from anything else that
I have to attend. Test.
When when we shut if we make it
so that you know we can't get a
reverse connection on here,
that's going to remediate the
majority of the problem.
So.
Yeah, so that was that
that's the scenario and
that's that's in like a real
in a real world pin test of
how you would you tackle it
in focal points that you
would, you would look at
you. Would you take
screenshot? Should make
notes right? So like here.
We would.
In a quick screenshot.
To prove that we got a
connection.
There you go. You have notes.
Now. These are some simple
notes, but I mean this is in
the. In the grand scheme of
things, you can use it this
enough right to to where you
could make a story out of this
right? You say, OK, I found I
found the service right. We were
able to brute force.
You might go back and like say,
like we found this version of
the operating system. I'm sorry
that this version of the Web
server, you might find some CBS
connected to it as well, but
for the main point, this is
what's going to drive home and
where. If you put this on a pen
test report and somebody's
going to go Oh, right.
You gonna get things fixed.
All
right?
So like this was not long enough
guys. 4 hours ago.
So what what we learn?
We learn some basic pen testing
stuff, right? Again like I said,
this wasn't going to go into a
lot of. Deep deep topics because
pen testing is a big big big
thing, so to speak, right? You
can do a lot of different things
in Pentesting. There's a lot of
different avenues that you can
go down with pen testing.
It's a huge field for anyone
that's interested in it, and
it's it's not just about hacking
things, it's about making.
Business is better, stronger,
more resilient. Right, making
them more competitive.
Uhm, it's not just about
hacking things. It's also
about looking at at a business
as a whole and making it
better.
Rather, that's technical
operational. And so on and so
forth, so. What we did though
is we looked at some basis of
pen testing, right?
Try to help illustrate some real
scenarios that I've gone through
and try to implement into a
couple situations with.
With Metasploit able right?
So we looked at Port Services,
talked about low hanging fruit,
and looked at web
vulnerabilities, right so? The
next question that I get.
Is how? How can I get in a pen
testing how? How can I do that?
How do I maintain? Well, the big
this is. This is my uh, a
mantra, so to speak, but I go by
the staying curious and giving
back right? An the way to stay
curious is the state live in the
communities. You can do that on
Reddit, discord, slack. I create
blogs rather than be talked
technical or non technical.
Rather you want to do a write up
of something like this and you
actually show like yourself
executing commands are starting
a video blog on YouTube.
And even publishing things right
and there's. Million
different ways you can do
that on the Internet.
To keep up with technical chops
and learn new things you can see
here. Uh, there's different
subscriptions that you can get
to. There's try Hackney von Hub
Act box, an Contester Academy.
Right, those are four services
that I I highly recommend.
Hum annual spend.
Not $25 a month.
And then find your niche right?
Like I said, Pentesting is a big
thing. Big big realm. There's a
lot of different avenues you can
go down. So there's cloud
development, exploit
development, system security,
network security academie is
even becoming a big one, right?
Uh, web web security application
security. So many different
things that you can specialize
it now. So many things.
To find something that that you
would like if this is a career
field that seems interesting to
you, find something that you
like. And I just go with it.
And then the big thing is find a
mentor. By multiple mentors,
find someone that you can talk
to that you can always go to. If
you have questions. And
remember, there aren't any
dumb questions.
So find something that you
could talk to that you can get
advice from and then find
people that you can give
advice to write Fundamente or
find multiple. Find people
that you can help out. That's
about giving back, right?
And then finds other student pen
testers or professional
contestors. Typically the
professional pen testers are
obviously going to be more of
your mentors if you're.
A junior Pentester student
trying to get into pen testing
or even a professional training.
Find other student, pentesters
those that are, because those
are the ones that are hungry.
Those are the ones that are
learning them the most. Uhm,
because they're trying to get
into the industry, right? So
they're constantly learning, and
they're they're getting. They
they have mentors that you can
you can meet right? And they
find out new ideas. And all this
good stuff, right? So find other
people that are that are in the
same situation as you or below
or above, right. It's all about
just community, basically. And
then sign up for a bug bite
program. That's the best way how
you can learn web hacking
because it's real life.
Yeah, we you can exploit
something in a in A.
And I maintain environment
right? Like what we just did,
but only going to learn so
much from that. You're going
to learn the techniques, but
you're not going to learn the
real world fundamentals.
So.
Closing thoughts is you start
you fail, you learn to grow and
that's what contest is all
about. It's about growing and
unfortunately you have to. You
have to fall. In order to get
back up right, and that's how
you learn and eventually you
don't learn anymore. I'm sorry
and eventually you stop falling
less. Or start.
And then again, uh, so one of
the things that I would say is
curious, a journey, not a
destination, right? Never ending
learning experience, the
constantly evolving, costly
building your skill set.
And then. This is main
is Mina and have him ask
on my way to the doctor.
Uh, not too long ago.
Um?
But these are. This is
various places where you can
follow me on GitHub. Uhm?
Medium medium is the blog
that I have.
And then also I have a website
which is the one at the top.
And my LinkedIn.
No. Now I get the last five
minutes to you guys.
See what she wears
their hands. Ask questions.
Grady.
I kind of lost in
the middle, but.
Uh.
So I created the the most
warfare and uh, uploaded it to
the website but.
Uh, my poor doesn't
uh my board heaven
listen anything why?
Uh, you might want to just
double check the port. Double
check that, make sure that you
made the war file correctly.
Most the Time, Is It?
Correct, I need address
localhost IP address and a
local port. Uh, she should
I open the file in
the website I opened it?
Open the monk moose fire
under the direction but is
still doesn't listen anything.
You should just be able to
execute it straight from the
file from the from the web GUI.
Kinda like how we just kind of
how we did right where.
Hum.
But you don't have to
go here, you just can.
It should when you upload it, it
should be in the applications
right in the application section
of the manager and you should
just be able to click on it.
So yeah, I did that, but
I my my listening program
doesn't listen anything help
heaven heaven. But I would say I
can't. I'll say that again, I
couldn't tell you a 'cause.
Usually it's there's something.
Because this is all you know, in
a controlled environment and
everything is pretty
straightforward. Uhm, so I would
just double check your command,
just double check it right? Make
sure it's calling to your
machine. I can't tell you how
often like I'll look up a script
and I will accidentally.
Thought uh, in a listening, uh?
After the listening command in
your your terminal.
Yeah, right?
And then it says connect.
Brightness as it connects from.
This machine are
from the target.
Should I open the door because
I use nmap to detect the
forcing? My local Kelly Machine,
but it shows, uh, there there
isn't any port open.
No 'cause there it wouldn't be
over. So I would just
double check.
Your shell again.
Double double check your shell.
Make sure make sure it's calling
to your machine. If.
If you're able to execute it on
the server. Make sure that it's
calling to your machine.
Like not the target machine, or
if you copied my script, make
sure that you don't. We change
the IP to your machines IP.
So. Um?
I got time for like.
Maybe one or two more
questions if anybody has
another question questions so
me and Kim both have a
question on the 55708 that
shows up. Is that supposed to
be like a designator for the
the compromised machine? On
the terminal there?
My dear. You know, actually,
that's a good question that
I couldn't. I can't. I can't
answer.
I don't know. I've never
actually paid attention to that.
Uh, if I had to guess, maybe is
a port opened up.
So we opened up on for four or
five though, didn't we?
Uh. I well know,
yeah, so we opened up sorry my
brain is tired today so.
Maybe that's the service? Uh,
the the process will make sense.
I'm sorry. The process that
opened up that might be the idea
that popped up for it, but
that's just yes, it's just a
guess. I actually don't. I
couldn't properly say 'cause.
I've never really paid attention
that, but if I had to guess it,
probably. Because I want to make
sense for it to be a port, but
it would make more sense for it
if it was like a process I.
Again. A mother question was,
uh, so in the beginning, uh,
yesterday and everything else.
One of the big things you could
talk about was, uh, programming
languages, writing and getting
more into programming and
whatnot. Would you really say
that's a really big thing when
it comes to even getting into
pen testing fields like I have
basic knowledge of Python, but
I'm not very well advanced with
it. Would that be a hinderance?
I guess no. You know different
different employers are going to
different things. Um, and that's
why I said yesterday. You know
you're going to see pen testers
from all sorts of different
walks of life. They're going to
be ones that were, like you,
know, C++ programmers before
some that were like Python
scripters an and some of you
know, don't even know how to
code. But they know how to read
code right in with pen testing
in code. It's it's good to know
how to code.
Uh, but you don't have to be a
programmer per say, and even in
this day and age, and I'm not
knocking on anybody, was a
programmer even in this day and
age. More copies and paste
snippets of code to make
something right, and then they,
but their knowledge helps them
understand like what they have
to cut and paste, and then they
have to edit things right to
make it into something that they
need. And that is the same thing
with pen testing, right? You
have to be able to understand
the code. You don't even have to
be able to put it together.
The it's when you get into
tool writing and tool
development and exploit
development that yes, you need
to know how to program,
especially with the if you
ever get into like exploit dev
you have to know assembly. You
have to know Python because a
lot of the scripts that will
make to attack your targets
will be written in Python.
And then it's always good to
know, like C++
justbecauseof.net, and because
of Microsoft. Um?
And then Java HTML, right? It's
you know, it's good to know
those with the web applications,
right? Uhm. So.
Long story short, do you have to
know programming? No. Is it good
to know it? Yes.
Uh, do you have to write it? No.
Do you have to be able to read
it 100%, right? It's kind of
like speaking a language when
you speak a second language, and
you might be able to understand
it but not speak it right, but
you still understand it. It's
the same thing, right? You might
it's better to understand it.
If you did, if you're not not
traditional programmer, worry
about understanding it, because
then you'll understand how
everything is put together and
how things are interpreted and
how they work and interconnect
with everything right? But you
don't know how this stack right?
Kind of thing, yes um, and then
for a programming language that
you need to know to write. If
you're worried about like
starting to write things and
create things is Python because
Python will allow you to create
scripts, allow you to script
things together, put commands
together. Uh, and also create
tools that can help automate
things for you. Do you have to
be a Python programmer now? If
you guys saw some of the stuff,
I write it something ugliest it
would be. You you you all. I'm
100% positive school mean in a
Python lesson 'cause I read some
of the ugliest Python code ever.
But I just get it to work right.
Analog pen testers are like
that, where it's just, you know
you got to make it work right.
You don't have to make it
elegant or anything. 'cause your
job is to. Um basically solve a
technical puzzle so.
So again, learn Python And then
learn how to just read
programming, right?
Understanding your language is
kind of have similar syntax to
each other, so you should be
able to read it.
So.
Why I know that was like a 2
for one one I got time for
one more question.
Before asking when
the next workshop
will be.
Somebody asked when the
next workshop will be.
You know, sometimes.
Uh.
Maybe, uh, I don't. I don't know
yet. Maybe by the end of the
summer if we get if I'm able to
get that far, I want to do
another workshop sometime soon.
Um, that focuses more on a more
direct topic within testing, so
I was thinking about cloud
pentesting because it's a. It's
a fun topic to talk about, and
it's not actually as technical
as you would think. It is more
of a business process. Anna
business scheme in a this is
plan rather than a technical
assessment. Not saying it's not
technical at all, it's still
technical, but. It's it's a lot
more business idea too, so you
learn a lot more different
things about contesting so.
If there is another another.
Workshop in the near future,
it'll be sometime near the end
of summer before.
The the fall semester begins.
So.
Wait, wait. DL
host with the with the
blank space.
No, you don't have to have
a blank space.
I I see the crash I see the
problem. Blank space
after L host.
Yeah, OK, that's like A cause.
An issue like I said it's
always. A lot of times
it's user error.
But we don't ever want to
say we you know you messed
up and trust me, I've been
doing this for a while and
I still mess up every day.
So, uhm, so that, uhm,
you know. I really, really
appreciate everyone who made the
time to come out. I hope you
learn something something new.
Uhm, hopefully some of the
experiences that I've had that
have leaked into the into the
workshop have helped give you
guys a broader idea what
pentesting is it? Pen testing is
something that you're interested
in. Please feel free to follow
Maine again, like on LinkedIn. I
write blogposts pretty
regularly. Or at least a few
times a month. Um, and they're
all typically regarding
pentesting, uhm? So again, thank
you again everyone for coming
out. And, uh, if you have any
questions or anything after
this, feel free to follow me and
uh, and ask me away. Thank you.
Want to say thank you, John, for
spending the time to make this
for us. It's so interesting.
Thank you so much preparing
you're welcome. I'm glad you
guys. Can we, uh, before
everybody leaves? If you guys
have comfortable can we? Are you
guys open? A picture together.
You guys are OK with you.
What will populate
the whole thing?
My hair is a mess I didn't
notice. Can you stop sharing the
screen so everybody can show up?
Yeah.
Kind of thing.
Turn on my Bluetooth.
Yeah, you don't want everybody
to see what your house looks
like. I highly recommend the
virtual background. That is why
I have one. Got it.
Yeah. Tops.
Acid T. Rex.
Your finals
in the
yard. How do I
make everyone show up in one?
Oh, I see.
Oh hello. Hi.
Now we can see your face,
that's cool.
Hi David.
Very good.
Send We will
try not to.
OK.
Capture.
Already.
Oh
yeah.
Very too.
I cannot. Is
it Aaron? So here is
just laying down.
OK
123.
Thank you guys for suffering.
Thank you so much, John welcome.
Alum again, if anybody has any
questions or anything I gotta
get going up. But if you have
any questions about. What we did
for the past a day two days. Do
you have any questions about
getting into pen testing or
anything regarding pentesting?
Please feel free to send a
message out to Maine and I'll
gladly help you out.
Stop.